---
title: About
---

### About Movement Kitchen

Movement kitchen for me symbolises weaving movement into the everyday. My studio
really happens to be in our large open-plan kitchen. When I don't teach here our
living space is still an ever‐changing obstacle course with balance boards, half
domes and spiky balls lying around and me and the children playfully climbing
over them as I'm trying to cook dinner.

I aim to create the warm, homely, intimate atmosphere of the kitchen in my
sessions too. In some way, my movement coaching sessions are similar to inviting
someone for dinner and ending up cooking together, playfully mixing spices into
a tasty, nurturing meal.

I work a lot with biomechanics and science of movement but in a relaxed and
informal way, guided by empathy and intuition. Instead of a lab my working space
is a kitchen, both literally and metaphorically.

### About Ivana

My movement journey has been paved by various injuries and an unstoppable urge
for learning in the process of overcoming them. I often felt my body was too
fragile to follow my pace of life.

In 2008 I left a career in corporate law with recurrent back and shoulder pain
and not being able to feel parts of my left foot. I completed my first 200 hour
yoga teacher training with the Yoga Federation of Serbia back in my home
country. In 2012 I continued my yoga studies at the Yoga Institute Santacruz in
Mumbai, India focussing on the therapeutic aspects of yoga. I spent three months
living and studying full time (900 hours) at the Institute, assisting and
teaching at health camps and workshops that the Institute regularly held for the
locals. Coming back to the UK, I went on studying at Yogacampus in London
attending multiple intensives and immersions focusing on yoga as therapy. After
years of studying, teaching and a dedicated daily practice I managed to fully
restore my feet and rarely had any back pain.

But then in 2014, shortly after my first child was born, I suffered De
Quervain's tendinosis on both wrists and a severe abdominal separation
(diastasis recti) with recurring back spasms that made me unable to continue my
practice the way it was. It was so incredibly frustrating to be re-injured over
and over again and in pain after every time I practised yoga, or even just
carried my child. Not moving couldn't be an option, but the way I used to move
was hurting me.

I found that there was so little support offered by the healthcare and very
little research done about diastasis recti, especially about its connection with
back and pelvic pain. Abdominal separation is usually seen as an "aesthetic
problem" and most of the solutions available focused on patching the gap instead
of looking into what had caused it.

> I wanted to understand why injuries happen and how to avoid them in the first
> place

Looking for answers I started obsessively researching and learning different
approaches to movement and bodywork. Questioning, deconstructing and learning
again from various teachers across the fields of yoga, pilates, somatics,
movement and dance therapy, Structural Integration, myofascial release and
massage.

In 2014 I discovered the work of American biomechanist and researcher Katy
Bowman looking into loads and forces of physics created by movement. I felt I
finally found a missing piece I was looking for in my journey to heal the
abdominal separation without a surgery.In 2015 I started the 2-year
certification with Katy Bowman's Nutritious Movement Institute and in October
2017 got qualified as a Nutritious Movement™ certified Restorative Exercise
Specialist. Studying biomechanics and science of movement felt like peeling off
layer by layer of all I knew about movement, rebuilding and reconnecting
everything again. I quickly gave up on the surgery idea and instead of focussing
on the separation itself I started focussing on restoring the functionality of
everything around it. And gradually I have restored a functional core and a body
that is able to support me in doing what I love.

Trying to make my skills more useful to women who are looking to improve their
quality of life after pregnancy and childbirth, especially mums with diastasis
recti, I am currently studying Advanced CPD in Modern Post Natal Assessment,
Core Restore & Functional Exercise Programming with Jenny Burrell. My passion
for movement and fascination with the body keeps driving me to learn, research
and explore new approaches and tools across the fields of functional movement,
physiotherapy, fitness and soft tissue therapy.

And my personal journey towards building a more movement-rich lifestyle
continues. Over the last five years I've thrown out the supportive insoles from
my shoes and gradually replaced all my heeled shoes with barefoot ones. Our
family got rid of most of our furniture and started spending a lot of our time
outside, moving in nature. I started looking at my environment differently,
finding movement opportunities where there were none: noticing all the trees for
climbing on my walks, walking much more barefoot and on varied surfaces, using
the children playground time to hang, climb and play with them instead of just
standing around.

> Longer I work with movement and the body, more I realise, the progress is
> defined not by one time achievements, but by general blurring of the border
> between exercise and life.

Exercise is not enough - I realised, we need MOVEMENT to thrive. Our bodies are
beautifully malleable and adapt to the way we use them.

You can create an environment that requires you to move more frequently and move
more parts of you as you go about your everyday life. Each little change creates
a thousand ripples.

[1]: https://nutritiousmovement.com/
