---
title: Movement coaching
---

### What is movement coaching?

Improving how parts of your body work together and in relation to each other
will bring different outcomes from cellular level up – from improved blood and
lymph circulation and better overall tissue quality, more balanced mass and bone
density distribution across the body, to more even strength patterns with less
wear and tear on the joints and less likelihood for injury.

I use Restorative Exercise / Nutritious Movement™ approach as a starting point
in my work. We will look for biomechanical roots of your injuries in the way you
use your body and how to build towards more sustainable movement patterns. You
can find out more about this approach on
[nutritiousmovement.com.](https://nutritiousmovement.com/)

Even though largely relying on mechanics and geometry in my work, I don't see
the body as a machine that needs to be ''fixed'' but rather a complex expression
of our emotions, habits and cultural conditioning, of the way we see ourselves
and experience the world around us.

A lot of my work focuses on the nervous system and motor programming, learning
how to isolate and control small movements, improving your proprioception and
coordination. The practices are performed slowly and with as little effort as
possible, giving a lot of attention to body awareness.

The aim of the exercises is not to challenge your abilities, but build new
neural pathways - innervating underused areas of the body so they would
gradually restore their function in your day-to-day life.

I also play a lot with interoception (sense of psychological condition of the
body) and experience of movement. I like using mindfulness, breath, touch and
somatic imagery to help you explore your movement and tension patterns, aid in
removing old muscular habits and cultivate an experience of safety and ease in
your body.

![Alignment points](alignment_points.jpg)

### Practical details

You can chose to have a session in my home studio in Hackney or at your home. I
currently offer classes in North, Central and East London, with travel expenses
added to the price.

Price: £50 for 1 hour session.

All sessions need to be paid in advance and can be moved or canceled up to 24
hours before the appointment.

Book a [free telephone consultation][1]!

[1]: mailto:ivana.demmel@gmail.com?subject=Free%20Telephone%20Consultation
