---
title: Whole Body Core Strength 6-Week Course
---

### Whole Body Core Strength 8-Week Physical + Digital Course

Whole Body Core Strength brings together everything I've learnt through my
professional and personal journey of healing a severe abdominal separation and
restoring a functional core.

This unique course combines small group classes / experiential workshops with
digital content – short videos and readings that you can go through at home and
keep coming back to as a reference as you build up your personal movement
practice.

Challenging the meaning of core strength beyond the tight abs, Whole Body Core
Strength aims to equip your with tools to gradually strengthen your body from
inside out.

We will explore why some people don't respond well to conventional abdominal
exercise?

Do you really have to pull your navel to the spine for your abdominal muscles to
work?

What tightness in your shoulders/hips/feet has to do with the weak abdomen?

How to notice and stop creating forces that keep weakening your core?

Using isolated small movements we will search for your body's "blind spots"
restoring mobility in the underused areas and building more balanced strength
patterns.

You will learn how to improve your alignment, reduce wear and tear on your
joints and get more of your muscles to participate as you exercise, practice
yoga, pilates or use your body in your day-to-day life.

Suitable for beginners as well as experienced movers, as the group is small and
each of the practices will be adapted to you.

Place: Kuu London  
76 Lower Clapton Rd  
E5 0RN London

Time: Saturdays 9:30 - 10:45 am

* Price: £199

Upon the completion of the course you will have an option to join a 6-week
continuation, if you want to go further. These will be weekly movement classes
playing with and building onto the motor skills you've learnt. We will focus on
improving your strength-to-weight ratio – especially through re-introducing
developmental movements such as crawling and hanging and support you in building
robust functional strength. Schedule and price of the continuation course will
be announced closer to the start.

Get in touch on 07936348233 or ivana@movementkitchen.co.uk to find out about the
start date and book your spot.
